Finally to wrap up this section of the course.
Let's go ahead and address a really common question of students which is how do I know that I'm ready
to apply to jobs in the data science career field so my opinion.
There are a few key skills that you should really have down before beginning your application process
and it boils down to three key skills.
So let's go ahead and discuss those.
The three critical skills that you should have before applying to any sort of real data scientist position
are working knowledge of programming knowledge of probability and statistics and then general knowledge
of machine learning.
Let's go ahead and tackle each of these bullet points in this case and a little more detail what we
mean by having working knowledge or general knowledge.
The first bullet point of working knowledge of programming.
So what does that actually mean.
Well you should have working knowledge of a particular programming language and I would recommend something
like our or Python for data science positions but it could also be something like Java or C plus plus
depending on what the position actually demands or calls for.
But the main question then on this particular bullet point that students have is well what do you mean
by working knowledge.
What I would say working knowledge is is the ability to basically handle any basic task by yourself.
Given enough time so it's an example of that would be maybe you're given the task of scrape the data
off this particular web page using a programming language.
Now that doesn't mean that you should be able to do that instantaneously because maybe you've never
done web scrapin before.
But if you have a working knowledge of that particular program over the course of a day or even a few
days you should be able to come up with a solution for web scraping by looking up things on the internet
looking at documentation and then creating a simple script to scrape the Web site of some sort of data.
So I think that's a really good test if you know basically in your heart that oh I would be able to
figure out script needed to scrape this web page even if I haven't done it before I know I have the
capability to do it.
Maybe over a few days.
Then you clearly have working knowledge of programming working knowledge of programming isn't just being
able to do a for loop or really trivial questions like fizz buzz.
Working Knowledge is actually applying programming to a particular problem.
So solving some sort of non-trivial task ok next bullet point here is knowledge of probability and statistics.
This one's a little harder to nail down as far as what is knowledge actually mean because if a student
asks How do I know I know enough probability and statistics.
It's a bit of a rabbit hole depending on how far you want to go into the math part of data science.
I think a really good test of if you understand enough about probability and statistics are actually
the practice interview questions in this very course.
So you can go through the question of this course the probability practice questions the statistics
practice questions and check out the resources link there as well.
And if were able to do the majority of those questions then you'll understand that you know enough about
probability and statistics to begin applying for data science positions.
And then finally general knowledge of machine learning.
So it is general knowledge a machine learning actually mean well it means that if I gave you a popular
machine learning algorithm you would be able to describe how it works.
So if I asked you what how does random forest work or how does linear regression work.
You would be able to describe it in pretty good detail how it works.
That doesn't mean you need to be an absolute expert in every single variation of a particular algorithm
but you should definitely know the basics that we discussed in the machine learning knowledge lecturer.
Again depending on the position you may not need as deep knowledge in certain areas.
Maybe if you're applying for business intelligence position or a business analyst position you really
won't need to know that much about machine learning depending on the company.
And then maybe if you're applying for a machine learning engineer position then you're really going
to have to know about machine learning and statistics and programming.
OK.
So again a lot of this depends on the position and the company.
So keep that in mind.
OK.
So overall a really great way to tell if you're ready for typical data science position interviews actually
practicing the questions in this course.
A lot of the questions in this course come from real recruiters at real Silicon Valley tech companies.
Are real questions asked in real data science interviews.
So you know what to expect and you would know whether or not you're really ready for this kind of higher
level data scientist interview positions.
Up next we're going to be describing that data science interview process in the next section of the
course and afterwards it's all just practice questions and solutions so you can test whether or not
you're prepared.
Thanks everyone and I will see at the next section of the course.